[Music]
great so there was a lot of information
yesterday for the purposes of this
course all you need to remember is a
file you add to ipfs is stored as blocks
in your repo so I am in charge of the
ugly first web UI I try and make it look
better every day
my usual approach to problem-solving is
let's build a web app so when I was
tasked with this course I just wanted to
get like a visual understanding of what
adding a file and it becoming blocks in
my repo looked like so this is a simple
web app that just you drop a file on it
you probably saw a similar one in Cork
or say so that that one was showing you
the dag structure this one is showing
you what's going on in the block store
so this is a almost empty ipfs block
store there are some metadata in there
this is the pin set metadata
we'll cover that later but that just so
that we're all on the same page visually
if I was to drop a file on this so if I
was to drop an image our preferred cat
image you'll note he's also here and his
there's a connection we'll come back to
him later if I drop my cool cat pitch it
into my repo it gets added as blocks its
chunked up you can you can change the
chunk size which would affect how many
blocks that image became and you can see
there's some green ones or some red ones
it sort of meaning but just quickly this
is your root CID for that file and
there's a bunch of other blocks we're
gonna go into this more later I just
want to get so on the same page books in
a repo so we're going to cover providing
or how you tell the IP office network I
have these blocks and how we use Godot
Melea to tell peers about which blocks
that we can provide we're gonna cover
getting so I profess get or how you say
in I profess I want those blocks we'll
talk about want lists we'll talk about
bits what we'll talk about verified data
and bit swap sessions and we're gonna
cover pinning so that's how you tell I
confess which blocks to keep on your
machine and that means they're going to
talk about pin types and the pin set and
garbage collection and we're also gonna
cover do not what we're gonna cover
deleting blocks because sometimes you
just don't want all on so how to remove
blocks from your machine and then also
some thinking about in the future how we
might share lists of bad bad bits that
we want to make communal and well known
so providing or how you tell I confess I
have these blocks how do you inform the
network of what you have so first up
this should all be understood now but to
make sure that we're on the same page we
need to agree on how we name things in
ipfs each block has a CID
is the content address of the data the
name of the block is derived from the
bytes it contains every unique block has
a unique CID so in this way see IDs are
giving us a scheme for distributed
naming the steps for creating a CID
allow multiple users to agree on names
for blocks without asking a central
authority
so peers who've never met can come up
with the same name for an identical
chunk of data without being told or
without having to ask each other this is
very useful which means we can move away
from URLs like content addressing let's
separate what we want from where we get
it and if we can remove an explicit
location and instead we can use the
address to verify the data that we got
was what we expected well this allows us
to get the date from anywhere which
which unlocks things like distributed
co-hosting of dicta which is like that's
for me like the most exciting thing
about idea fest like being able to say
like I care about this data I'm gonna
participate in hosting it is an
interesting radical improvement to the
internet but the day are still stored
somewhere and so how do we let the
network know what content we're
providing so the challenge is how do we
locate content address data yeah in the
short this is how ipfs does it and
particularly this is the Lib p2p flavor
of the demo which has some mild changes
but nothing that we need to worry about
for the core the consequences of this
course so if C IDs give us a scheme
participating naming Kadeem layer is
providing a scheme for distributed
discovery for finding content address
data so the ademma algorithm defines who
to tell and who to ask about where to
find data over a changing network of
peers so ipfs users could emiliya to
store records like this one about which
peers are storing which blocks so in a
in a trivial centralized system we can
perhaps store these as like one big
table that would let us look up for a
given CID tell me all the pair IDs that
are providing it but it wouldn't scale
to have every pair store information
about every block that everyone has so
could Emily teaches us how to distribute
that table so just to get us all on the
same page with definitions but Emily is
a dish to be in hash table so a table
where the keys are hashes or in our case
C IDs is known as a hash table a
distributed hash table is or DHT gives
us a way to split that table across all
the peers so the mental image is lots of
small tables instead of one big table so
that brings us to the Kadima code emily
is one weird trick if we're going to
split the table up we need to know which
peers to tell and which to ask a subset
of them instead of all of them and
condemned Leah says tell the peers with
peer IDs that are most similar to the
CID of the block that you have that you
can provide it so you don't they don't
store it for you they will store a
record that says I can provide this so
you might tell Brian that you can store
bread these are obviously fictionalized
C IDs you might tell Chandra that you
can store cheese this is obviously a
grotesque simplification for anyone
who's looked into the HTS and has
implemented them but it's a useful
mental model to have if you haven't and
also to deal with peers coming and going
from the network the Kadima new
algorithm suggest you you tell more than
one by default we tell 20 and in ipfs
we're looking at maybe increasing that
number because the size of the DHT has
exploded pretty massively recently so
there are lots of options for
configuration but the the high level
principle is you tell peers whose
parodies are most similar to the cid
that you have that you can provide it
also if content gets popular in the
network then multiple peers will be able
to provide that same block so you might
tell q and Chandra that you can provide
um cheese by sending them this ad
provide a message and then another pair
QM trillion also has that block so they
to tell QM Chandra I can provide this
block so now we have more than one peer
telling another that they can provide it
so with this one weird trick both
parties know who to tell and who to ask
about where to find provider records you
know who you can provide this without
asking a central registry it's a it's a
mechanism of like finding agreement in
the unknown absolutely yeah so so with a
dispute hash table its key to valine and
the value can be anything and so for
when you're telling a distributed hash
table about providers in our case it's
key to a list of P roadies yeah but I
saw a peer ID doesn't help you discover
how to connect to them that's the first
mapping then in live p2p there's also a
peer store that has the addresses the
multi others so if I have if I know a
peer ID I can go to the peer store and
say oh I'm gonna need to tell you about
how to connect to this person so I send
you the multi out of this fact also of
note this is a big simplification like
things like how similar a peer ID is to
a CID is defined mathematically as the
exclusive-or distance between the bytes
that make up the peer ID and the bytes
that make up the CID we don't need to go
into that too much now and hopefully you
covered it a little more in some of the
poster sessions and some of the other
courses but it's a useful mental model
to have and it's good to note it for our
purposes it's useful to know that Kadena
is a mechanism that ipfs users to enable
peer to peer discovery of content if I
go and tell someone else on the network
I can provide this this cid then that
state is now outside of my control
like eyes a Ford told Chandra I can
provide cheese but then I close my
laptop and I drop off the network
there's no way for me to have told
Chandra I can't provide it anymore so
Chandra now has some stale information
about a provider so we have this notion
of reprieve IDing that
every 12 hours at least you have to
re-announce see IDs that you can provide
so that the people hosting these records
these provider records for you can tell
the information is still fresh so if
they don't hear back from you 12 hours
later they're going to purge that record
also you can control which see IDs that
you announced as we saw in the quick
visualization at the start there are
loads of locks in your repo some of them
pins some of them are unpinned you don't
have to announce every single block you
have and there's a thing called the
provider strategy that lets you change
which blocks in your repo you can
provide so all is the default option and
then there are other options like routes
and pins thanks going to keep to that
but you can see these if you want to
take this back to something concrete
that you can look at yourself if you
have a look in your config file in your
IP FS repo and look under the Reaper
Vidor section you'll see an interval so
that's to do with how often I'll reap
revise how often will I announce the
network I still have this thing so
keeping the provider records up to date
more frequently that twelve hours is the
default and there's no great reason to
change that and the strategy is set to
all by default and you can customize
that to say just just announce things
that I pin and we're gonna go into
pinning later so that'll make more sense
when we get to that also you can see
yeah question
yeah you would if you wanted yeah if you
wanted this to be fully private you
would need that and that doesn't exist
yet yeah yeah yeah yeah right so exactly
so the strategy right now of the only
available strategies are fairly simple
in just terms of scoping which blocks
you will announce but there's no reason
why you couldn't have a smart strategy
that was like please encrypt every every
block you announce or only an I deem
these to be public only announce those
cool any other questions Brad so to see
this in action it's all a bit
theoretical at this point you can run
the command IP FS DHT find profs you
pass it a CID and it will output a list
of peer IDs that can provide that block
so under the hood what has happened is
you have looked for in the closest peers
that you know about so you the CID you
provided you you have a list of
connected peers and a list appears that
your DHT implementation knows are and
it's going to try and find the one that
it deems most similar to the cid and ask
them do you know anyone closer to this
or do you have a provider record for
this this block this cid and so you'll
either get a response you leave it say
you'll either get a response that is I
can provide can tell you who can provide
this or you'll get a response that says
I don't know who can provide this but I
do know about this other provider this
other peer whose I deem their peer ID to
be more similar to the cid than mine so
you can you could go on a multi hop
journey to find the closest peer in the
network and ideally if things are
working and someone can provide that you
converge on the same the same set of
parodies as where to look for provider
records so this command isn't actually
getting the blocks it's just doing a DHT
walk to find a list of providers for a
given cid which gets us to getting IVFs
again what happens when you run ipfs get
so this is how you say to a BFS I want
those blocks so we just learned how you
discover which peers are providing but
how do you actually get the data
it's bit swap bits off it's how you get
the data so this is the trading box with
friends module in open fest world bit
swap has two jobs to request blocks you
need from connected peers and to send
blocks you have from peers who want them
what so one important thing is like the
the live p2p implementation of Kedah
million is a separate system from bit
swap which is what trades blocks so
academically is like peer discovery who
has the things bit swap is for your
connected currently connected swarm I
can trade data with them right so we've
all sat down listen to me talk for a
little bit and so now it's time for some
dance
a small dance that will demonstrate how
it's what works I'm going to need two
volunteers thank you very much actually
I'm enforcement what's gonna happen now
Akshay is gonna add a file a cat picture
to his ipfs repo and this gentlemen
plate is gonna request it so actually
could you add this to your octopus repo
please through the medium of unwrapping
the file ah that's incredible so it's
lucky its kind of lucky that this cat
picture was chunked into a single block
that was very convenient for the
purposes of this demo but you know
chunking algorithm we can set the block
block size large and it turns out that
when you added it very curious but the
hash came out as QM cap yes that is a
complete coincidence okay so you now
have a block in your block store we can
say
and it's it's got a CID very exciting
you guys it's you okay you guys appears
connected you want my picture do you
want my picture all right can you see
this little thing this is a
manifestation of his desire this is a
this is a worthless message that's kind
of underwhelming actually I know because
I'm pretty small but we should do is you
should throw that action amazing
actually what does it say on it he wants
a okay do you have can you throw em
captain yep
now obviously you still find camp cap
because of computers job done so we just
saw a blob get traded there was a lot
less than blocking back a demo almost so
trivial details so you received a block
from the network it but it didn't come
with a CID because would you would you
trust a random stranger on the Internet
to tell you what the thing was called
yes but do you think we should write
software that just trusts data that
comes in no say what you got from from
actually it was a block didn't have this
big old CID on there you'll know it's
the attention to detail here this CID is
on a large card well you got well
actually actually sent to you as rewind
so you have a block in your block store
with a CID very cool when you make you a
copy of it and send it as a bit swap
blocks message what you put on it is not
the CID but the recipe by which you can
construct the CID whoo
now notice that the recipe is smaller
than the CID as well so age if I send
you a CID you shouldn't trust it a B if
you shouldn't trust it why send it at
all so what you're gonna send is they
did with the recipe let's go I'm saying
you want this we can assume that and you
caught it now what are you gonna do got
a recipe and a block you can t-man use
the recipe which includes the multi hash
header to tell you which hashing
function to use and what actually
function length irrespective I prefer
blink you sure you know sure that's not
what you got and it isn't what you asked
for because you express CID which
included the inspected hash function
have been used so sorry but that's plate
to you next time yeah so you're gonna
hash the incoming data you're gonna
discover by giving the recipe that it
isn't fact you and cat and then there's
one last step that you did which is okay
I have independently verified that the
data that has arrived I've to write the
CID I didn't trust your city no offense
just got a check and then there's one
was that you had a one list you sent to
air this message got sent you received
it I mean the message is dead but in
your head you just hatched this book and
it said it's Q and can you like I was
waiting for queuing cat that's turned me
around and then you stick it in your
should that have come through with a CID
that you weren't expecting you might
have dropped it on the floor so as an
example you've got this can I have Q and
cat what do you guys do thanks guys so I
take the recipe I hash it let's go
rescue cat I look at my waist I say yes
I'm cute cat and then this one comes in
and like oh my god recipe oh this
kid it's cute okay
so index what line that's essentially
what happens if you get a block that
you've already received right basically
it's no longer on your want list drop on
the floor that way people can't just
send the blocks and have to store them
what if I send out my want this but it's
it's the QM dog in the situation that I
throw out my one list all and sundry I
don't get response pretty quickly
okay I know about QM collar bones be
like do you know who could provide this
and Cosby like no but I know about Kathy
she might know give Kathy who can
provide this and she see me like exact
got this that's got this that's not here
sorry Theo Theo's got this and then Theo
I connect to you I send you my want list
then you send me the book dude it's okay
let's we can imagine this happening yes
Thank You Theo random over
[Applause]
sorry all right that was the bit swap
dance hope you're feeling a little
fresher feel free to ask questions yeah
so that in terms of bit swap you're only
ever going to like the co DS we have to
match perfectly so in the event so it
would be a strange situation where you
sent out one is for a CID and someone
gave you back a differently hashed
version of the same thing but in the
event of that happen you just you're the
only thing your node could do is assume
that was bad data and drop it in as a
human with a good brain you're like aa
potential optimization you could have
actually found out that that was the
same thing but it would be strange for
nodes to be like you asked for C DX and
I gave you c dy by happen to know that
they're the same
yeah yeah yeah I didn't didn't go too
deeply into the the prefixes but we can
see that there's well I can see it
there's CID v-0 there's dag PB which is
the multi codec and then there's the
multi hash function and hash tags very
good question that information is
already there so the question is if the
CID is self describing why do we need to
send the recipe and not the CID so
essentially is because you shouldn't
trust the CID the CID includes the
digests the hash whereas the recipe
doesn't so in practical terms the CID is
more bites on the wire then then the
recipe is and also the recipient should
never trust someone else's output of a
hashing function so because the message
so it's not request response there's no
session you you send out it's just
message passing so I have sent out a
message saying I want these things and
then at some point later I will start
receiving blocks of data so I'm not
they're not connected so then I've got a
block of data just with a recipe
attached so then the first thing I do is
use those parameters to have to tell me
how to hash this data so that I end up
with the CID that I shouldn't know with
exactly the same CID that you think
you've sent me and that's the ID
hopefully is exactly the same CID that's
on my want list right
right so if the speck because of course
this is like this multiple language
implementations and if the speck was
like bits what messages include the CID
it leaves the room for developers to get
like complacent and be like okay I'll
trusses and like way back when when I
started JSI profess had a bug that it
wasn't checking CID s against the want
list so 99% of the time that was fine
you only ever received blocks that you
asked for but a malicious actor could
have started just sending blocks to
people and then hashing them and been
like cool cool block I'll store it so
you saw in the demo I received two
blocks that were identical I have stored
the first one and then took in my head I
took the CID off my want list so when
the same block came in milliseconds
later I was like why it's not my one
list and it won't I don't have to know
at that point it's not my want this
because I just received it as far as
that subsystem is concerned it's like
you you're not waiting for this so
dropped on the floor so the so so good
question like if I announced to a bunch
of peers I want a thing and then I get
it and peers some pairs of much higher
latency err still sending me things or
I've asked for like hundreds of see IDs
and I start getting them so there's two
messages in bit swap one is one list and
the other is data and but a want list
message also has a flag in it that if
you set it like true is basically like a
cancel so you could send a want list or
basically I do not want list so yes of
course
what happens no it's it and that is a
tricky problem because it's one of those
things that's like quite it's quite
simple like once you understand those
primitives you're like wait isn't like
what if I have the same content and I've
used different hashing function but
that's a difficult problem for ipfs to
solve because because we would have to
like normalize every hash or we'd have
to do a lot of extra work like it we can
it's all them all the tractable problem
yeah but it's more like the system is
optimized for like you're speaking the
same so you're speaking the same set of
hashes and if people have got specific
reasons to change it the what's
interesting is there's a lot of
flexibility in the CID gives us a huge
amount of leverage to upgrade things in
the future but it doesn't mean that if
we do upgrade things all the old stuff
is still discoverable by the new CID
which is a problem but there is a
general assumption that you would have
to have a good reason to want to start
messing with the hashing function and
that you are probably doing something
something app app specific you're kind
of creating your own little island of
data that's using the non-standard
hashing function
yeah totally but it's doable but so then
it's a performance hit because we would
have to be essentially normalizing
everything
maybe hashing them twice so and so
remembering that this is just a wire
protocol that's designed to be
influenced by lots of people so if we
were to wait if we were to kind of lump
I peeled B in with that that would be
cut it would become orders of magnitude
more complex than it is now right now
it's super simple
so just for everyone else yeah oh yeah
of course yeah yeah yeah I have a slide
on that in the minute currently we don't
prevent bleaches but we could and with
your help we will but right now there's
no logic in there to prevent that so and
and implemented the the bits what
Ledger's exist and we track send and
receive blocks between every pair but we
don't use it for anything other than
stats so for everyone else let's just
recap we saw a lovely dance thank you to
our volunteers the cast and crew of that
performance were the want list which is
this staple trapped list in memory of a
running node that where each pier stores
the list of C IDs that they want to get
then you've got a want list message this
is a snapshot in time of a current like
state fully managed in memory list so
the one this message is a snapshot what
this message is a snapshot one this
message is a snapshot
what this message is it's not sure you
get it my in-memory representation
changes but the snapshot goes five zaps
and network and is listen to you by
connected peers and then hopefully you
get some blocks messages back so the
blocks message look good shot blocks
message is a message that contains one
or more blocks of data each one prefixed
with the recipe for how to calculate
their C IDs no no cuz it come and we
will get to that in one minute so just
quickly just to recap on the
verification start I think we covered it
really detailed but you send the recipe
you don't send the CID the recipe
includes the CID version the multi codec
and the multi hash these are all the
things you need to calculate the CID and
if you use all the same ones as the
person on the other end did you will end
up with the same CID assuming that the
data is correct
so on receiving the blocks the first
thing you do is use the hashing function
to hash the day you got then you prefix
it with the right codec and the right
version CID will match something in your
want list if everything is working
correctly if it's not working correctly
and you've either already received it or
someone is trying to send you bad data
you drop that you drop that data on the
floor
where matters is the multinational
binary comparison I don't know I don't
know what it's been it's yeah it's not a
string comparison it is the it's the the
bytes array format so in the
implementation see IDs are represented
like this daughter's bytes and then you
project them out as the string version
so to your question I've got a root CID
and I want a whole file I don't just
want to do so the general flow is I want
this CID and eventually get a block back
when you verify it and you store it in
your repo done all that and then you
finally get around to looking at it and
you're like holy crap Ola this thing has
so many links in it this isn't the file
this is just like a thousand links so
then you take so what's interesting is
you send it out I want this with one Co
T on it then you're like okay a bit of a
bigger one now is I want this with a
thousand C IDs on it and then the
network will give you back whatever
subsets of that it can if you say get a
root CID it but you're basically selling
get get recursively like get all the way
down the tree so the general flow is i1
this ID
oh thanks another layer of the graph I
want these D IDs and you repeat
depending on how deep the graph is yes
sir
how'd that work when you write so in
terms of bits what it just means so the
DHT thing right so that so there's two
two subsystems at work bits what is to
connect space so the first thing I do is
ask my connected peers because they're
going to be the fastest responders maybe
I'm connected someone who already has
this data and I can send out a one list
of any arbitrary size great that bit you
understand so then if I don't if maybe
some people can respond with some of the
C IDs but maybe some of them I don't get
back at that point I will in parallel I
can do many separate DHT queries so I
can do a DHT query for every single CID
well in it you send one out proactively
as soon as you do a get and then yeah
you will periodically refire it if a new
pic joins your swarm you'll send if
you've got an open one list you'll send
it to them because there's an important
like whether these two systems join up
so the DHT you finally tells you are
here is a set of multi adders and a peer
ID I know this person has told me that
they have that CID you receive the multi
others at the DHT levels it could Emily
receives them mmm and then the first
thing it does ago pay lib p2p we've just
discovered another peer add them to your
swarm so you connect apart your swarm
you've just a Danny person to your swarm
and you've got an active one list that
hasn't been fulfilled yet so the first
thing you do is be like hey new peer got
any of these and of course so there is
this slight kind of brain disconnect
there we're like the DHT has told us
this person has it but it just kind of
by quirk of like how you like oh new
person connected I'm gonna send them I
want list it's not quite as directors
like oh and go and get the thing from
them it's like getting the key you get
on the get as a connected peer sender
one list your into bits what land bits
what does its job and then because
they're now part of your swarm you've
sent out the first cid you've got back a
block that now links to hundreds but
you're still connected to the person who
gave you the first one so he's going to
receive your let your bigger next layer
of the graph thousand cid one list
chances are if they gave you the the
root they probably have the whole tree
so that likely to be the first responder
with all the rest do you not believe
they do
currently no they could they don't
whoosh
also some of the feelings that that kind
of like broadcasting of want list starts
to evoke is sounds a little bit spammy
to ask everybody about everything all
the time so what's interesting is like
bit swap as the definition on the wire
the protocol definition is very simple
just broadcast want lists received looks
but that then freeze the application
layer up to be as intelligent or as dumb
about how it chooses which peers to tell
there's no mandate that says you must
help every peer like you don't have to
send you one list to everyone that would
be a simple naive implementation which
was exactly what we had like a year ago
and now now we have a thing called bit
swap sessions certainly and go ipfs
Josiah vests is still catching up but
bits up sessions are just a way of like
the application layer tracking some
state about which peers it's been
speaking to which peers have been
responding well to previous requests so
it starts to optimize so in the case
where you get a root CID from peer a it
means the bits off is gonna target the
next round of want lists for that graph
directly to that peer that responded
well instead of sending out to everyone
but if peer a happened to have just the
root block and not the the second layer
of the graph for some reason then it
would eventually announce two more peers
it was like it's very stateful very kind
of like trying to do a lot of heuristics
so it's like what wait wait a few
milliseconds no no not responding start
to start to fan those requests out to
more peers and more peers and more peers
until eventually get response and it
also optimizes that list so optimizes by
peers who've responded successfully and
it then adds another layer optimization
which is I will prefer peers who are
responding quickly so
trying to speed things up very big note
and an invitation to all of you like if
you want to make ipfs faster as you can
probably tell by now if we can make bits
walk more intelligent if we can make
bits what work faster you will literally
improve everyone's experience of this
peer-to-peer network get involved like
it's active endeavor Hannah is leading
the charge on this she's got she's
working on go bit swap so ipfs slash go
bit swap on github if you can test out
some of the open PR that would be
amazing
if you can propose new optimizations and
kind of a unpack how you think that will
improve things with tests would be
amazing people always laugh but with
tests it's a shame but like if you're if
you're looking to help make our business
faster this would be a really like high
leverage spot to help out any questions
about bits what
[Music]
a poultice of the time frame that would
be necessary to at times down is it
possible that even though it isn't here
that hasn't come to mind
I'm not as far as I'm aware we're pretty
pathological that we just keep walking
the DHT the timeout is if it if it
exists it's incredibly high a team
[Music]
the
and should be at most the number
yeah but is that so many months like the
state bhaiyaji if that happens then that
soul stay stable pears would definitely
help
and then someone else in the DHD for the
second session
a small wind the clients that do you
have to provision
I know
possibly not
it's a huge cheating and performance
yeah alright let's let's pause because
this is good chat and there will be time
at the end so if bit swap is thing it's
quite context lists in that you send us
Co DS you get one back and you're like
oh I definitely want all the things that
this is linked to if only I could have
told you that I want this CID and and
everything it links to right in bits
what you can't do that you just you're
just sending C IDs and get in blocks
back graph sync is experimental it's not
something that you can really turn on in
your ipfs today but you will hear people
talk about it if you listen to the ipfs
IRC channels and get involved so it's
worth touching on it very briefly where
graphs Inc hopes to improve on bits what
is to be able to tell that so when you
send out a 1 list instead of just
sending a co d you can send a CID plus
some context like you can tell the
recipient I want this CID and everything
it links to so you might pass what we're
gonna call an IPL D selector basically a
way of saying like can I get CID star
like give me everything from here so
that then the remote has more context
it's like okay I won't just give you the
block you're probably going to want all
of them so I'm going to start sending
you all of them but it's early days if
but if that kind of optimization excites
you then graph
think is the place to go go and lend
your muscle on to pinning pinning is how
you tell ipfs please keep these blocks
so to quote why are you sleeping
ipfs makes it feel like every block is
local
there is no command to say go and
retrieve this file from a remote server
so pinning is how you would tell I
profess to always keep a given block
locally and right at the start we said
when you add a file it's stored as
blocks in your repo but it is also worth
noting that every block you add all you
get from other Pitters is cached in your
repo so if you if you've got a cache
then you're going to want to manage it
so you can control the cache size by
just setting a max max size limit in
your ipfs config file and then you can
enable garbage collection to ensure that
our vest does its best to keep the
amount of storage under that max size
limit so if you store more blocks than
your size limit then the GC process will
fire garbage question and it will delete
all unpinned blocks from your local repo
so we can see that in action in the web
demo garbage collection I mean it's not
the most exciting thing in the world but
so I added previously the cat picture I
got these blocks and I can so what these
currently mean is red is the root block
so it's pinned recursively we'll go into
that in a minute
the green ones are pinned indirectly
because the red one is pinned
recursively there transitively pinned
and the gray ones are unpinned now
what's interesting is these grey ones
you can see right now these are metadata
they're not quite the same as unpinned
blocks these are this is the pin set
it's a quirk of this demo because this
demo is visualizing the output of ipfs
refs local which is like every single
block in your repo including secret
metadata that we don't really talk about
it's the pin set it's how it tracks what
is pinned and it's also the output of
ipfs pins LS which tells us every block
that is pinned so we can unpin so this
is the cat pic if we were to go and open
this one
this one on the gateway if we're gonna
open this CID on the gateway we'd see
the cat pick but this is about pinning
so these things are pinned so if I run
DC now nothing much happens because
there's no unpinned blocks that it can
remove caveat like the gray ones or
unpinned but they're the pin set so
can't remove them but if we own pin
everything the grayness of cash okay so
now they are all on pin bike and run GC
and as this is what you might this is a
visual model like one pin things for an
away I'm gonna put put and then just for
the take a bit miss let's see the cat
again so the block that's still the pin
set so we can we can see like way more
blocks like DC bites it's gonna be so
many the terrible idea never do a thing
that you've not done before
alright we'll come back to him later
mmm-hmm anywho quick visualization of
pinning and unpinning so let's talk
about it the red one that we saw in that
previous slide and previous web demo
it's pinned recursively so if you run
ipfs pin so you can probably have a
guess of what that means now so they're
recursively pinned red one is how you
say please pin this block and all the
blocks it links to and all the blocks
they link to and all the blocks a link
to until you run out of font sizes to
put any offenses like so the and this
hopefully you've got a bit of a mental
model of the structure of DAGs and
graphs from core course a so you get the
whole like directed acyclic graph thing
so this is you have a route block for
any given file recursively pinned means
pin the whole tree and so that be able
to pin something recursively is a useful
labor saving endeavor because it means
you didn't have to manually pin every
single transitively reference block just
you know from your point of view it's
once the ID gets me a file
also of note like the green ones are
pinned indirectly so they're the ones
that were referenced also worth noting
ipfs is going to pin files that you add
to your repo so it's a way of like we
assume that you care like you want to
keep files you add there your files but
files you get from others are not penned
so they make it into your repo and they
are cached and they're reprimanding
discrepancy they're like stuff I add is
pinned stuff I get is not pinned but I
can elect to pin it so why have why have
cached that not pins in pinned blocks in
your repo at all why bother
reciprocal co-hosting as I like to call
it or as came up from a question like
don't be a leech so if you get blocks
from the network you store it in your
repo so that you can be a provider but
it's useful to have this kind of two
level things so as with torrents like
you've downloaded some bits you use them
become someone who can reap revise those
bits so then what we use pinning for is
just a way of saying ok it's really like
a mechanism for managing what's a
garbage collector and what not do so
things you get so imagine you're running
ipfs companion and you're visiting lots
of web pages and you're loading them
through the ipfs network you're then
becoming a co-host of those websites and
you you know ipfs kind of opts you into
that by default which is interesting and
I'm I applaud that choice I think it's
good but eventually that can you might
start to discover that you've like
visited all of Wikipedia and you've
maybe don't want to post all of
Wikipedia so then you can either trigger
garbage collection manually or you can
just set a max size and let it slowly
like clear out blocks that you don't
want to keep around but it and then
pinning is a way of saying proactively
actually I bloody love Wikipedia I'm
gonna pin it install that I'm gonna get
a bigger hard drive and I will also like
proactively say to IQ fest don't ever
garbage collect Wikipedia because I care
about it so much
I'm gonna preserve a local copy and
offer that up to the network and become
another provider exactly so we don't
tell the DHT that level of context we
just tell the DHT we're providing things
which is interesting because obviously
if everyone enables the AGC and you're
telling the HTV about stuff that you
just happen to her that could lead to
more DHT churn might be interesting
context there's an intention improvement
there
but right now depending and it also
depends on your provider strategy so by
default you provide things you have
pinned and things that you have not been
but you could if you know that you're
going to have a like very journey cache
that stuff you don't really want to
provide you could limit your provider
strategy to only announced blocks you
have pinned so an important point the
word pinning in ipfs land has become
overloaded it's a slightly confusing
term now because of the way that I
profess is transparent about whether
blocks are locally stored or remotely
stored so if you if I want I can use the
pinning command as a way of saying I'm
gonna grab a copy of this remote thing
andrey host it or it can I can mean I've
added this file and I'm pinning it
locally it's the same thing either way
it's a local operation but some people
use it to refer to like I will become a
co-host of a remote data set also it's
overloaded because there are pinning
services and these are people who
provide an API that let you to ask them
could you pin this for me on my behalf
on your local machine but for the
purposes of us you understand my PFS
pinning is local like I pin to my
machine and to help frame that
understanding it's the pin set right you
you saw the gray blocks in the web demo
that I kept pointing to is like metadata
these ones won't go away
like pinning is local because all you're
doing is adding see IDs to this pin set
which is just a list of unique C IDs
that you have added to the you have said
I put this pin this C
there is an elective course with Hector
about cluster and IP this cluster is
amazing at some point you're gonna write
like just as a like infrastructural
pattern of using IP FS if you're doing
more than just like personal experiments
if you're hosting data for other people
you probably don't want to just keep
having to get a bigger and bigger hard
drive and a bigger and bigger server you
probably want to scale out horizontally
I professed cluster lets you do that
let's use shard up in set split up into
across multiple servers and the most so
unless you set a replication factor so
if you've got 10 10 ipfs nodes in your
cluster you can say give me a
replication factor of 3 and then you
just add your files to one cluster node
and then cluster under the end of the
hood will spread those blocks out across
three machines so there's three copies
at least across ten and then it will
start to load balanced they'll sort of
balance there's data storage so as you
add more and more files it's going to
shuffle around the blocks so that
there's always three copies but that
each machine is storing roughly the same
amount of data the other cool thing
about cluster that I'm probably going to
rob Hector of telling you but you can
make a cluster of clusters so that's
super cool I'm just gonna leave her out
there cluster is so good it's a bathroom
almost 1.0 yeah there's there's there's
people with inside the ipfs team who are
like idea that should be ugly that's an
cluster all the times faster is great
all right the home stretch deleting or
do not want and do not want this block I
don't want this block no deleting is
local most important point we're all
friends of Peter player world this
probably won't come as a surprise to you
you can run ipfs blocks RM a cid and
remove it from your repo but you cannot
remove blocks from other people's repos
because they are individuals with agency
and as they can't delete things from
your repo you cannot delete things from
their repo
and you'd be surprised how many people
come on the office house calls and be
like how do i how would I remove
something from ipfs and it's like well
have you ever sent an email to your boss
that you shouldn't have right
it's once you sent it it's gone I mean
not me standing in like corporate
Microsoft Exchange servers but once you
send it it's gone there's no like bring
that block back so if you add a block to
your local repo you don't share it with
anyone and you delete it there's a good
chance that's gone normally standing
other people adding it independently
there's no there's no there's no
backsies you are paying attention so
that the next line in my speaker notes
is the difference between ipfs and the
current model is if you if you if some
website publishes something illegal and
you ask them to take an errand they can
take it down there's no way to know if
some other website hasn't replicated it
mirrored it just cannot know and in ipfs
you can at least get a subjective view
of the network you can see and say DHD
fine probs
does anyone still got this is anyone
providing this thing that I'm very
embarrassed about and you can use that
to then frame how you approach the world
maybe it's gone and you can just not
talk about it but still there and you're
like probably gonna have to own up to
this now
but yeah interest that's a really
interesting difference and I think
that's an improvement that ipfs office
here it's important to be honest about
UX blunders if you try and do an IP FS
clock RM on a cid that is pinned instead
of just doing what you meant
currently I profess will give you an
error it'll say yeah can unpin that I
can't I can't delete that because it's
pinned and as someone who cares about UX
I think that's just a thing we have to
fix I think we should I think I
understand what you meant
in that case and I'll unpin it for you
and then delete it but so good to know
right now if you're gonna try and delete
something you may have to run ipfs pin
RM first you see that error don't panic
you can delete it
also what I discovered with the the web
demo is don't delete your pin set
metadata because your IP FS gets very
unhappy very quickly the ipfs block
remove command will do whatever you tell
it to do
so there's a couple of pointy edges in
that one because I was trying to
simulate TC and bad things happened I've
deleted a lot of local index DBS getting
that demo to link do not replicate so
lots of people talk about sentient
resistance and that kind of thing in our
devices is trying to make that possible
but it's also worth noting that like
sometimes there's data that you can't
replicate for legal reasons or won't
don't wanna replicate for ethical
reasons so there are situations where
you don't want to participate in the
replication of some blocks this is
something that I believe s could do way
more to support so like there's an idea
that we could allow individuals
organizations nations to publish lists
of see IDs that that do not there
shouldn't be replicated list of cities
that you shouldn't attempt to host if in
order to comply with local laws beliefs
or social norms that way instead of it
being a situation whereby say you try
and access YouTube from the UK and you
try and see some video that has like
restrictions or it hasn't been released
in the UK and it just says like YouTube
just makes a guess of where I am
accessing the internet from based on a
you know a really reasonable estimate of
my IP address of access and then I often
see various videos it's like you you
cannot watch this so what it's
ridiculous stupid laws but more more
importantly like everyone should be
empowered to kind of decide what content
is good and bad for them and what we
want to get to is a feature where you're
not denied access from where you happen
to be accessing the internet from but
more based on like electing to subscribe
to some lists of co DS where you're then
choosing to say I won't do this and it's
more based on informed consent
rather than centralized like I'm gonna
babysit you you don't
to look at this and if you're interested
in that topic we're going to run a deep
dive on it later today there's lots of
challenges there like imagine we
convince a nation-state to start
publishing the list of see IDs they
don't want their inhabitants to look at
those lists could become very long or if
you have a small child like I do imagine
that people start publishing naughty
lists of terrible see IDs they probably
shouldn't be stored in plain text where
anyone can just go and start like
looking at all the see IDs that are on
them because instead of instead of not
hosting them you're giving like people
like children I'm pretty I'm just sort
of reaching like if I was a kid and I
found a naughty list of cities the first
thing I'd do is not apply it I would
look at each CID intern until I went mad
so it's challenged but that's the deep
dive this has been the life cycle of
data in the d-- web did you have a nice
time